Create 2021-03-community-call.md (#401)
USRSE/usrse.github.io: _events/2021/2021-03-community-call.md

---
title: March 2021 Community Call
expires: 2021-03-11
event_date: "March 11, 2021"
layout: event
repeated: false
---

The next US-RSE community call is on March 11th at 12ET/11CT/10MT/9PT.

The main topic of discussion is
**"Changing How Academia views RSEs"**

> We will focus on questions like how different institutions see the role of RSEs in research or how the work of RSEs is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will focus on topics like how different institutions see the role of RSEs in research, and how the work of RSEs is 
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will focus on issues such as how different institutions see the role of RSEs in research, and how the work of RSEs is 
```

> being recognized for example in terms of career progression and retention. This topic is related 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
being recognized, for example, in terms of career progression and retention. This topic is related 
```

> to our January community call **"RSE careers in academia,"** however, it extends beyond career paths. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to our January community call "**RSE careers in academia**," however, it extends beyond career paths. 
```

How are the products of RSE work and RSEs themselves being valued by academia? 

> Clearly this is a topic on the US-RSE community collective mind. During this community call 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clearly this is a topic on the US-RSE community's collective mind. During this community call 
```

we thought we could try to start to develop the skeleton of a collectively authored white paper on this 

> topic, to be published on the US-RSE website. The goal for the white paper could be not just to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
topic, to be published on the US-RSE website. The goal for the white paper would be not just to 
```

identify areas that need improvement, but also to promote concrete actions and steps toward a more ideal 
landscape. In the call we plan to have breakout groups around different possible subsections of a white 

> paper and then discuss in a plenary session at the close. In follow up dialog, after the call, we plan 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
paper and then discuss in a plenary session at the close. After the call, we plan 
```

> to try some open, distributed and asynchronous writing to finalize a document that can hopefully capture 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to try some open, distributed, asynchronous writing to finalize a document that will hopefully capture 
```

our collective perspectives, thoughts and ideas. 

Suggested subsections:

> 1. Career paths for RSEs in RSE groups as well as the lone wolves. If there is an RSE group, does that mean the institution has accepted the importance of  RSEs? How are RSEs who do not work in dedicated RSE groups valued? How is funding of RSE positions handled (short term contracts/long term contracts, etc.)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Career paths for RSEs in RSE groups as well as RSEs not in groups. If there is an RSE group, does that mean the institution has accepted the importance of  RSEs? How are RSEs who do not work in dedicated RSE groups valued? How is funding of RSE positions handled (short term contracts/long term contracts, etc.)?
```

1. Recognition of work. What are desired ways to be recognized (co-authorship, acknowledgements, citation, etc.)? And is this recognition happening? 

> 1. How do institutions treat the products of RSE work? Does it matter for example, how often a piece of software is reused, in how many papers it is used? Is there support for ongoing maintenance?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. How do institutions treat the products of RSE work? Does it matter, for example, how often a piece of software is reused, or in how many papers it is used? Is there support for ongoing maintenance?
```
